Embracing Ignorance
Ever since I was a kid, I loved to code. The idea that I could just feed my computer a list of instructions, and it magically understood how to execute them, was enchanting to me. It was a fun hobby of mine, but I started to take coding a bit more seriously during my freshman year of high school. Over the subsequent years, I taught myself several programming languages and joined an online community called ScriptingHelpers – a public Q&A website for people learning to code. From there, my perception of what it truly meant to be a good learner, and teacher, had begun to slowly unravel.
Teaching myself something new, on my own, was not easy. I had to gruelingly fail over and over again before making even the smallest, unrewarding step towards progress. Thankfully, I was hardly ever on my own. I began to understand just how many resources are at our disposal for learning, and how often we take that for granted. Books that people spend years crafting, video tutorials that take hours to produce for free consumption, and not to mention, the active brilliant minds that are out there, eager to guide you. These were all crucial factors in my quest to master the art of coding, and I was inspired by those who took the time to create free learning materials for others.
One such resource that beautifully encapsulated my favorite learning strategies, was the previously accredited ScriptingHelpers website. This small online community was founded by people just like me – passionate coders who wanted to help each other learn. The goal of the website was to allow people a virtual space to post public coding-related questions, where anybody from any background of knowledge could attempt to answer them. This vulnerable, collaborative style of learning was exactly what I was looking for, as I found human interaction to be most effective for me as a learner.
As I started becoming more active in this community – sometimes posting dozens of questions a day – I unknowingly began to build a reputation among the other members. At first, I was just seen as an “eager learner” who occasionally helped other people with questions that were similar to ones I had asked. However, as time went on, I gradually started posting more answers than questions and got recognized as more of an “educator” than a “learner.” Most question topics I came across felt trivial, because I had recently learned about them or asked the same question myself. This began to create some kind of illusion that I was much more seasoned in my “expertise” than I actually was. 
Several months pass, and I spend more and more time answering questions on ScriptingHelpers, inflating my new reputation as “educator,” along with my ego, even further. I felt like I was finally in the shoes of those who inspired me when I was still actively learning. People would tell me I was really good at explaining things, or that I should be a teacher. It was all very encouraging, and nice to hear, but something just felt off about it. I didn’t feel as if I truly met the standards that my fellow community members held me to.
Due to my large portfolio of accepted answers, people began coming to me directly with questions they had. Sometimes I was able to help them, but other times, I had no idea what to do. In fact, many people coming to me for help were already operating at a much higher level than I was. At times like these, I felt like I had just emerged from a jungle of knowledge on a tiny island, surrounded by a sea of ignorance that I never knew existed.
Suddenly, I realized what had happened. I was so hypnotized by all the positive attention and feedback I was getting from helping people, that I never stopped to think about how I should respond to it. Instead of asking myself if I deserved the praise I was getting, I just blindly accepted it and proceeded to raise my self-expectations without any basis for doing so. After all, those people were just strangers. Sure, we get to know one another as people do online, but we don’t know each other. They don’t know if I was a PhD computer science genius with years of coding experience, or just some high school student who watched a couple of tutorials on YouTube and then called it a day. Spoiler; I was the latter.
It got to the point where I was afraid of expressing doubt about anything in front of others, out of fear that people would think I might not know something. I put so much pressure on myself to meet these impossible expectations of being someone who has all the answers, that I stripped myself of the most important ideologue a learner can wield; embracing ignorance. It’s okay to not know something, but more importantly, it’s okay that others know that too. I missed the old feeling of being fearlessly uncertain – expressing how lost I was without anyone expecting me to know the way.
After sitting on these thoughts for a while, I decided to finally make a change and start over. Originally, I was just going to create a new ScriptingHelpers account under a different name, so I wouldn’t tarnish the reputation I had already built. But then I realized, that would be completely missing the point. The entire reason why I’m starting over is because the reputation that I built had turned fraudulent and was based on a know-it-all mentality. In reality, I was not as knowledgeable as people thought I was, and I didn’t always have an answer to every question
So, I kept my original account. I started searching my notes for coding topics that I still had deep, intricate questions about, to post them. I was no longer afraid to show my vulnerability in my lack of understanding, even if that meant changing my public image after it had been solidified for so long. Despite the confidence I built early on in my learning journey, I found that you should never tell yourself that you have mastered something, as this is a sure way to stop yourself from reaching any higher. Be inquisitive, be confused. There is no better way to infinitely strive for greatness.
